---
layout: post
title: A list of everything I own
---

Having a list of all of our belongings makes us more aware of the things we own.

Somehow being able to look at a list and say "yup, that's pretty much it", is
an interesting feeling. You can somehow visualise your stuff in lines of plain
text. I made this list initially to be more conscious of the things I own, but
realised it might be valuable to share publicly as I'm always interested in
what other minimalists own and how they live simpler lives.

Before we start, one caveat: _I haven't included things that I co-own_, for
example kitchen utensils I share with my girlfriend. I've also not counted
consumables such as food, cleaning and hygiene products. With that out
of the way, here we go!

### Clothes

I go for neutral colours that go with most other items of clothing. Therefore,
99% of my clothing is either black, white or a shade of grey.

- everyday shoes
- sports shoes
- winter boots
- dress shoes
- suit
- tie
- dress shirt
- short sleeve shirts x2
- white t-shirts x10
- thick white t-shirts x3
- black t-shirt
- grey t-shirt
- black jeans
- blue jeans
- sweater x2
- hoodie
- autumn jacket
- winter jacket
- scarf
- winter hat
- gloves
- shorts x2
- swim-shorts
- sports shorts x2
- sports t-shirts x2
- cycling shorts
- sweatpants
- underwear x10
- socks x10
- handkerchiefs x5
- belts x2

**Total: 70**

### Electronics

- iPhone (+ charger)
- AirPods (+ case)
- laptop (+ charger)
- laptop stand
- keyboard
- Kindle (+ charger)
- Nokia brick phone (+ charger)
- USB drive
- travel plug adapter

**Total: 9**

### Hygiene

Here I go for reusable and durable tools as much as possible. For example, my steel razor is "buy it for life".

- steel safety razor (+ blades)
- dental night guard (+ case)
- hair clippers (+ charger guards)
- hair scissors

**Total: 4**

### Miscellaneous

- wallet
- keys
- watch
- Swiss army knife
- backpack
- duffel bag
- suitcase
- water bottle
- important documents (passport, ID, etc)
- padlock
- travel pillow
- photo album

**Total: 12**

### Books

I've recently bought a Kindle. It makes so much sense: it's lighter than most
books, e-books are cheaper and better for the environment, and it doesn't take
as much space as physical books. But I've kept a few books I like. Everything
else was donated or sold.

- The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt
- How to Win Friends and Influence People
- The Daily Stoic
- Radical Candor
- The World Coffee Atlas

**Total: 5**

### Kitchen

Most things in our kitchen are shared, so here I only list my personal
belongings (i.e. coffee gear).

- Aeropress
- Hario v60
- Hario scales
- Wilfa coffee grinder

**Total: 4**

### Outdoors

- road bike
- bike lights x2
- bike D-lock
- bike cable lock
- tennis racket
- table tennis bats

**Total: 6**

I think that's it. 110 items. I've most likely missed things, and this
list will inevitably change, but as it stands it's a good snapshot of my
belongings in the current time and situation.
