---
layout: post
title: Personal finance advice I wish I knew earlier
updated_at: 2024-06-01
---

When it comes to saving and investing for later in life, the earlier the
better. Here are some things I wish I knew when I first started earning a
salary.

_Disclaimer: I am not a financial advisor. I cannot provide financial advice to
you, this is purely for educational purposes. When you invest, your capital is
at risk._

### Be more aggressive with your pension

The first thing I wish I did as soon as I got auto-enroled in a workplace
pension is to move to a higher risk fund.

For most workplace pensions, the default fund is very moderate, but in your 20s
you can handle the volatility of the stock market, so move to the most
aggressive fund. This usually means more equities, fewer bonds.

If you're auto-enrolled with NEST as most people are, their most aggressive
option is the Sharia Fund, which is 100% equities. Have a look at its recent
performance compared to all other NEST funds [^1]:

![Nest fund comparison](/public/img/nest.png)

_(past performance is not a reliable indicator of future results)_

### Investing is not scary

One of the reasons I put off investing in stocks and shares for a while was
because I was scared to put money somewhere I didn't fully understand. With a
little bit of reading, and after realising your pension is actually invested,
you'll soon realise investing in the markets isn't a scary thing. _You already
do it_.

Luckily, you don't have to be a hands-on investor to do well. You can start by
investing in _index funds_, which track a wide variety of companies across the
world. That way your risk is minimised because if a few companies in the fund
out of hundreds goes bust, you won't take a big hit.

To put this more eloquently, in the words of John C. Bogle, American investor
and creator of the first index fund:

> Don't look for the needle in the haystack. Just buy the haystack!

### Optimise your emergency fund

Cash loses buying power (hello inflation) over time, so if you keep all your
money in your current account, you will _lose_ money every year. But keep no
cash at all, and you risk relying on borrowing and getting into debt in case of
an unexpected expense.

So it's a good idea to keep an _emergency fund_ i.e. money you can use
immediately without selling investments in case you have a financial emergency.

But how much cash should you keep? That's a very personal question which will
depend on your own appetite for risk and other life circumstances.

Some people recommend keeping 6 month's plus worth of living expenses as cash in
case of an emergency. Others recommend as little as one month. Experiment with
different amounts and find what feels right for you.

Always ask yourself if you're holding too much money in cash, and give your
emergency fund a trim if needed.

### Don't save then invest, save AND invest

As you build your emergency fund, you don't have to defer investing. You can do
a bit of both, moving towards more investing and less saving as you approach
your desired emergency fund value.

No matter how little you can put aside, consider setting up a Vanguard Stocks
and Shares ISA and contributing monthly to it. You only get a tax-free allowance
of £20,000 every year, so it's better to contribute now than when you're able
to contribute the maximum amount, as you would have missed previous year's
allowances.

Say you can save £100 per month. Instead of keeping all of it in your current
or savings account, you can save, say, £75 and invest £25. The closer you get
to your ideal balance in cash, the more you can shift this split towards
investments, untill eventually 100% of extra money goes into the stock market.

### Reconsider savings accounts

(This section has been updated to reflect current interest rates).

You really only need one high-interest savings account where you keep your
emergency fund. Nowadays in the UK you can get 4-5% interest on easy access
savings.

But make sure they're easy access as you might need to rely on this money
quickly in case of an unexpected large expense.

Besides a savings account for your emergency fund, and the money you keep in
your current/checking account for daily expenses, the rest of your money should
be invested to make the most out of it.

---

[^1]: Graph from NEST's Q4 2020 Investment Report found [here](https://www.nestpensions.org.uk/schemeweb/nest/aboutnest/investment-approach/other-fund-choices/fund-factsheets.html)
